1. What is Hibernate?
Complete solution to manage automatic persistence in DB in Java.
ORM tool
JPA implementor
JPA : Java Persistence API --- Java EE / Jakarata EE specs (javax.persistence)
Hibernate : JPA implementor
(DB Journey in Java ---1. JDBC 2. Hibernate (native hibernate) 3. JPA 4. Spring Data JPA
Hibernate :auto persistence provider
Other persistence providers : iBatis,Kodo, EclipseLink,TopLink,JDO
Spring Boot frmwork : default persistence provider = Hibernate
Open source framework : founded by Gavin King
Intermediate layer between Java app(standalone desk top based / web app ) n DB

Why Hibernate ? (refer to readme)
1. open source n light weight
2. supports cache (L1 , L2 , query cache) : faster performance
3. auto table creation.
4. simplifies join queries
5. 100 % DB independent (HQL/JPQL ---Hibernate : DB dialect -- converts DB independent queries in DB specific syntax)
Hibernate 5.x onwards : no need to specifiy DB dialect property in config file (hibernate.cfg.xml : run time classpath)
6. Hibernate developer doesn't have to go to DB level , DB ,table ,cols , rows sql set up the db conn , prepare stmts (st/pst/cst) exec queries : process RST : convert it into pojo / collection of POJOs All of above will be automated by Hibernate
7. JDBC : fixed db conn.(new separate conn per call to DriverManager.getConnection) 
   Hibernate creates :internal connection pool => collection of DB connections
   when -> hibernate framework booting time at the time of creation of singleton SessionFactory(SF) 
   at the time confgure() -- hibernate.cfg.xml(location : by default run time class path)  is parsed : 
   DB config details -- drvr class , db url , user name , pwd
   hibernate.connection.pool_size= 10 (max size)

In DAO layer : When you invoke , open session n begin tx : db conn is pooled out -- wrapped in Session instance n reted to caller.
try
CRUD work (save/get/JPQL/update/delete...)
end of try --commit
catch --RunTimeExc --rollback
finally : session .close ---pooled out db cn simply rets to the pool : so that the same conn can be REUSED for some other request.

8.Solves the important issue of  Impedance mismatch in DBMS
Object world (java objs in heap , inheritance , association , polymorphism) ----- RDBMS (table , row cols ,E-R,FKs,join tables...)
9. Exception translation mechanism
   Hibernate translates checked SQL excs --un checked hibernate excs (org.hibernate.HibernateException) : so that prog is not forced to handle the same. 

->> Object oriented query language, where table names are replaced by POJO class names & column names are replaced by POJO property names, in case sensitive manner.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

->>>Hibernate's   Automatic Dirty checking
The process of automatically updating the database with the changes to the persistent object when the session is flushed(@ commit)  is known as automatic dirty checking.

An object(POJO) enters persistent state when any one of the following happens:
When the code invokes session.save, session.persist or session.saveorUpdate or session.merge
		OR
When the code invokes session.load or session.get
		OR
Result of JPQL

Any changes to a persistent object are automatically saved to the database when the session in flushed. 
Flushing is the process of synchronizing the underlying database with the objects in the session's L1 cache.
Even though there is a session.flush method available but you generally don’t need to invoke it explicitly. 
A session gets flushed when the transaction is commited. 

------------------------------------------------------------------------

-> What is Session? (org.hibernate.Sesion : i/f)
Session object is persistance manager for the hibernate application
Session object is the abstraction of hibernate engine for the Hibernate application
Session object provides methods to perform CRUD operations
Session just represents a thin wrapper around pooled out DB connection.
Session is associated implicitely with L1 cache (having same scope as the session lifetime) , referred as Persistence context.

Example of CRUD
  save()                 -    Inserting the record
  get() / load()         -    Retrieveing the record
  update()               -    Updating the record
  delete()               -    Deleting the record

-> What is SessionFactory?(org.hibernate.SessionFactory : i/f)
It is a factory of session objects.(provider of session objects)
we use sessionfactory object to create session object(via openSession or getCurrentSession)
singleton(1 instance per DB / application) ,immutable,inherently thrd safe.
It is a heavy weight object, therefore it has tobe created only once for an application & that too at the very beginning.

-> What is Configuration Object ?(org.hibernate.cfg.Configuration)
Configuration object is used to create the SessionFactory object.
Object Oriented Representation of  Hibernate configuration file  and mapping file is nothing but Configuration object.
When we call configure() method on configuration object ,hibernate configuration file(hibernate.cfg.xml placed in run time classpath)  and mapping 
files are loaded in the memory.

POJO/Entity Life cycle
----------------------------------
1.Transient State
An object is said to be in transient state if it is not associated with the session,and has no matching record in the database table.

2.Persistent State
An object is said to be in persistent state if it is associated with session object (L1 cache) and will result into a matching record in the databse table.(i.e upon commit)

session.save(account);tx.commit();
	or
Account account=session.get(Account.class,102);
	OR via HQL/JPQL
Note
------
When the POJO is in persistent state it will be in synchronization with the matching record in DB i.e  if we make any changes to the state of persistent POJO it will be reflected in the database.(after commiting tx)  -- i.e automatic dirty checking will be performed(resulting in insert/update/delete)

3.Detached state
Object is not associated with session but has matching record in the database table.
If we make any changes to the state of detached object it will NOT  be reflected in the database.

session.clear();
session.evict(Object);
session.close();

Note :
By calling update method on session object it will go from detached state to persistent state.
By calling delete method on session object it will go from persistenet state to transient  state.
 
Explain the following methods of Session API
public void persist(Object ref) -- Persists specified transient POJO on underlying DB , upon comitting the transaction.

void clear() 
When clear() is called on session object all  the objects associated with the session object become detached.
But Databse Connection is not closed.
Completely clears the session. Evicts all loaded instances and cancel all pending saves, updates and deletions)

void close()
When close() is called on session object all the objects associated with the session object become detached and also closes the  Database Connection.

public void evict(Object ref)
It detaches a particular persistent object detached or disassociates from the session.
(Remove this instance from the session cache. Changes to the instance will not be synchronized with the database. )

void flush()
When the object is in persistent state ,whatever changes we made to the object state will be reflected in the databse only at the end of transaction.

If we want to reflect the changes before the end of transaction (i.e before commiting the transaction ) call the flush method.
(Flushing is the process of synchronizing the underlying DB state with persistable state of session cache )

boolean contains(Object ref)
The method indicates whethere the object is associated with session or not.

void refresh(Object ref) -- ref --persistent or detached
This method is used to get the latest  data from database and make corresponding modifications to the persistent object state.
(Re-read the state of the given instance from the underlying database)

public void update(Object ref)
If object is in persistent state no need of calling the update method. As the object is in sync with the database whatever changes made to the object 
will be reflect to database at the end of transaction.
eg --- updateAccount(Account a,double amt)

When the object is in detached state record is present in the table but object is not in sync with database, therefore update() method can be called 
to update the record in the table

-> Which exceptions update method can raise?
1.StaleStateException -- If u are trying to update a record (using session.update(ref)), whose id doesn't exist.
  i.e update can't transition from transient --->persistent
  It can only transition from detached --->persistent.
eg -- update_book.jsp -- supply updated details + id which doesn't exists on db.

2. NonUniqueObjectException -- If there is already persistence instance with same id in session.
eg -- UpdateContactAddress.java

public Object merge(Object ref)
  Can Transition from transient -->persistent & detached --->persistent.
  Regarding Hibernate merge
1. The state of a transient or detached instance may also be made persistent as a new persistent instance by calling merge().
2. API of Session
Object merge(Object object)
3. Copies the state of the given object(can be passed as transient or detached) onto the persistent object with the same identifier. 
4. If there is no persistent instance currently associated with the session, it will be loaded. 
4.Return the persistent instance. If the given instance is unsaved, save a copy of and return it as a newly persistent instance. The given instance does not become associated with the session.
5. will not throw NonUniqueObjectException --Even If there is already persistence instance with same id in session.

public void saveOrUpdate(Object ref)
The method persists the object (insert) if matching record is not found (& id inited to default value) or fires update query
If u supply Object , with non-existing ID -- Fires StaleStateException.

lock()
when lock() method is called on the session object for a persistent object ,untill the transaction is commited in the hibernate application , externally the matching record in the table cannot be modified.

session.lock(object,LockMode);
eg -  session.lock(account,LockMode.UPGRADE);
